---
title: Two Questions to Evaluate A Life-Changing Idea
author: Jordan Shirkman
type: post
date: 2013-03-06T11:00:01+00:00
url: /2-questions/
categories:
  - Theology
tags:
  - christianity
  - evaluation
  - faith
  - ministry
  - questions
  - truth

---
<!--?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?-->

There are two critical questions to ask when you're presented with an idea that calls you to completely reorient your life.

## Is it true?

_and_

## Is it worth it?

<!--more-->

  
As I meet with college students to talk with them about who Jesus is, those are the questions that I want them to wrestle with.

I ask them to set aside any preconceived notions they have about the church or Christians. I ask them to evaluate the facts for themselves. Simply ponder if it _could be_ true. I urge them, &#8220;If you need more information, do all you can to gather that information. Then make an honest, fair judgment of the information you've gathered.&#8221;

My teammates and I often echo what C.S. Lewis said.

> ## Christianity, if false, is of no importance, and if true, of infinite importance. The only thing it cannot be is moderately important.

There should be no intellectual assent to a life-changing idea without it _actually_ changing your life. The reason that happens, however, is because people ignore the follow-up question.

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;">The second question, <em>Is it worth it?,</em>&nbsp;is more difficult to answer. In fact, in working with college students, I've met plenty who&nbsp;intellectually&nbsp;agree that Jesus is God. They may believe the Bible is true.&nbsp;</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Helvetica Neue', Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif;">It's not that the need more proof. It's that they need to be shown that the implications are worth experiencing life-change. Some have never seen anyone truly live for Jesus. It's a foreign concept in every regard.&nbsp;</span>

Those of us who have agreed that Christianity (or any idea) is true, must live like it really is worth it. It's the best proof to a world evaluating its worth.